# Random Search
- Hyperparameter values are selected by independent (random) draws from a uniform distribution of the hyperparameter space.
- In plain English, Random Search selects the combinations of hyperparameter values at random from all the possible combinations given a hyperparameter space.

# Grid Search of Hyperparameters
- Examines all possible combinations of the specified hyperparameters.
- Examines some combinations of the specified hyperparameters, selected at random.
- User determines the number of combinations to examine.

# Random Search & Low Effective Dimension
- Some parameters affect performance a lot.And some others don’t.

# Grid vs Random Search
- Random Search allows the exploration of more dimensions of the important parameter
- Grid Search wastes time exploring non-important Important dimensions
- Random Search selects values from a distribution of parameter values
- As opposed to Grid Search where parameters are defined manually.
- Random Search is suitable for continuous hyperparameters

# Random Search - Advantages
- It can be parallelized.
- High efficiency in highdimensional spaces.
- Well suited for continuous hyperparameters.

# Random Search - Disadvantage
- Small reduction in efficiency in low dimensional spaces

# Random Search - Considerations
- We choose a (computational) budget independently(ish) of the number of parameters and possible values.
- Adding parameters that do not influence the performance does not decrease efficiency of the search (if enough iterations are allowed).
- Important to specify a continuous distribution of the hyperparameter to take full advantage of the randomization.